I saw a lot of the comments say oh he
talks about this but where do you go yes
where do you go and you know where they
go they go to Dana Farber MD Anderson
and Sloan karing and mfet cancer CER
Fred Hutch cancer center and all these
different the James you name it they go
there and they say I want metab oh
there's no no evidence to support
metabolic therapy so where where are
these poor folks going to go I mean they
should be banging the doors down in
their hospital and say I want metabolic
therapy uh and then that get they get
belittled and and and and uh ridiculed
uh and they and they they get a blind
cold shoulder I mean this is nuts uh why
are they doing and they're all you know
I I agree with many of the comments
they're saying oh cafrey talks about
this but where do we go all right why
don't you try going down to your local
Cancer Center and see what they say and
they they're going to tell you what I'm
saying makes oh I never heard of this uh
he he doesn't know he's not this he's
not that and I said well I don't those
kinds of comments are superficial you
tell me what part of the scientific
research Arch that I have done that you
find uh is is is not supported okay you
show me the evidence that what I'm
saying is wrong you show me a cancer
cell that can live comfortably without
glucose and glutamine then maybe I'll
say I really want to know about that
because I've been looking for that for
40 years and I haven't found it I want
to know about that so um yeah so you
know you can't oh there's no clinical
you can't do what cafre says because
there's no clinical trials well what the
hell well why don't you do a clinical
trial and they well we can't do a they
can't do the clinical trial why not well
uh blah blah we it cost money to do
these clinical trials who's going to pay
for this clinical trial and then they
say if we do a clinical trial we have to
do standard care first we need to you
know we need to poison and IR radiate
you and then maybe we'll consider
metabolic therapy no no no no you
consider metabolic therapy first if it
doesn't work you can always go back and
do the crazy stuff that you do so um but
you know and I feel for the people you
know I feel I feel bad about this whole
thing myself I feel bad because because
I understand the biology of cancer we
have a pretty clear idea of how it works
we have case reports showing that these
things work okay and that why is nobody
doing it where are the clinics that
should be doing this why doesn't Dana
Farber step up why doesn't MD Anderson
step up why why don't these big
hospitals that should step up okay
because they're all chasing genes
they're all looking gene mutations that
are largely irrelevant to the cancer
right so they go oh you got the braa one
mutation you got the uh FDF insulin
epidermal growth factor mutation you got
p-53 mutation you got who cares the
bottom line is that they're using
glucose and glutamine to stay alive why
don't you go after the glucose and
glutamine the the most of the mutations
are largely irrelevant so you're taking
biopsies of people getting useless
information and they will go about
treating them with stuff that largely
doesn't work for for many many people
and charging them a fortune for it okay
which is outrageous you know you're
charging I mean this is another outrage
this financial toxicity stuff I mean we
published the paper on it is Criminal it
is immoral to to do that to people I
mean if you're treating them with
something and they and they get sick and
they die and then you charge them all
this extra money for this this is
immoral this is a moral issue here you
know uh don't get me started you know I
have to deal with this stuff all the
time it's unbelievable you know and all
I do is I make sure that the research
that we publish is accurate and then
they say oh you know yeah we got some
we've worked very very hard on doing and
setting up these kinds of experiments so
that we can get accurate results and
then when we put them into the clinic
like those few uh uh those few MDS and
clinics that are willing to try to do
this uh they get really good results is
everybody cured or is everybody no how
many is everybody cured and managed
using toxic radiation and chemo I mean
give me a break uh but we generally see
a better quality of life uh o overall
survival is improved and quality of life
has improved um is there
resolution I I don't know uh how do we
know resolution I told you Jesse right
uh if you die like at 95 years old and
you had colon cancer when you were 30
and you died from a heart attack and the
colon cancer never came back I would say
that guy was probably cured but in the
meantime uh how many good years can we
get out of somebody who was in fact
diagnosed with a an aggressive kind of
metastatic cancer and I think that's the
success rate if you can double overall
survival relative to the what's being
done today then I consider that success
there there it is right so um so you
have to then
try to figure out well you should get
guests on here on your podcast and ask
them those kinds of questions why are
you guys not using metabolic therapy
right and see what kind of answers you
get it's very interesting instead of
having me on here why don't you go out
and get some of the guys running the the
big uh cancer Clin go get the head of
cancer biology down here at Dana Farber
MD get those guys in here and oh well we
did research and we didn't support what
C freed said oh yeah where is it publish
it show me you know for clearly what
you're doing is not working so uh you
know you have to uh you have to kind of
rake it up here a little bit and see
what's going on well you know that's the
patient yes they know there's something
else that could help them and they go to
their professionals and the
professionals say no that does not exist
or if it were important I would have
known about it or you you get a whole
slug of of different kinds of uh of
responses and then and then you heard
some of the comments the patients went
in and asked the physician they said oh
no uh sugar you can't take sugar away
sugar is essential I mean this is nuts I
mean these people are living in the
Stone Age for crying out loud I mean
they have very little understanding of
the very biology of the disease they're
working with whether it's the physician
or the
nurse and and I think that's not
entirely their fault and you saw so many
uh very few on College any few
physicians at all get uh treat uh uh
training on the power of diet and LIF
style issues to manage chronic disease
they're they're
getting um training that does not
involve the very essence of what they
need to know about how to manage cancer
um and don't forget we have pop people
who are told you know you got to stop
you you got to stop eating carbohydrates
in your diet you need to lose a lot of
weight naturally to reduce your risk for
diabetes cancer in this and there's a
lot of people who don't want to hear
that either they say can you give me a
pill well the pharmaceutical would be
very happy to give you pills um but that
problem is as you said at the beginning
it's us okay it's largely us we we can
we can shoulder a lot of the bird if we
put ourselves in the position to get
cancer in the first place we can also
take ourselves out of that position and
try to help ourselves so metabolic
therapy is is is different than all
other therapies because it requires a
significant participation on the part of
the patient the patient if the patient
participates in the healing process they
will benefit okay so it's significant
what does that mean well you're going to
have to radically change your diet and
lifestyle in order for your body to get
healthy again okay and if you're not
willing to participate and do that then
you are prone to have this condition
persist and possibly kill you so I think
there has to be an education on the part
of the patient
as well as on the part of the on the
part of the
physician and cancer is an extremely
contentious field it's been that way
from the very beginning um because the
implications are so profound to who we
are as
a as a species who we are as a person um
it hits it cuts across all of these
different kinds of things but then again
when when folks hear what I say they get
like fired up and excited and give them
hope and then when they go to their uh
clinic or their uncom ologist they get
dashed down and then there's this level
of frustration and so what do you what
do you do I I feel so bad and because
they say where where's the where are
these clinics you know where they are
they're in your local hospitals okay
that's where they should be um why are
they not the ones uh adapting this
metabolic therapy that I mean you have
these giant monster cancer uh centers
the MD Anderson Cancer centered we have
Dana Farber Sloan ering I mean these are
multi-million dollar institutions with
all of this stuff going on and when
people get cancer they go there and they
say we have imuno we have all that's all
based on the concept that cancer is a
genetic disease so right off the bat you
know you're getting a treatment not
based on the concept that cancer is a
mitochondrial metabolic disease now I
know a lot of folks don't know that and
um and they get frustrated and I don't
blame them how do you think I feel you
know when I talk to those guys um and
most of the time they don't want to talk
they don't want to get involved they
don't they don't and if they do you know
there's another layer of of of research
here that you don't know about that I
have to deal with and that is those guys
those scientists who say Oto warberg was
incorrect In His assessment of cancer uh
as a metabolic disease because cancer
cells are taking in oxygen just as
readily as normal cells therefore they
they're they're they're not uh what
warberg said dependent on fermentation
because their oxygen consumption is very
similar to that of a normal cell and
what we have found in our research is
the oxygen consumption in the cancer
cell is not being used efficiently for
the production of energy whereas in the
normal cell it is being used so they're
assuming that oxygen consumption by
itself means that the cell is getting
energy from oxygen in normal cells that
is true in the cancer cells that is not
true okay and there's a huge research uh
uh emphasis showing how cancer cells
have normal oxidative phosphorilation no
they don't they have oxygen consumption
that's not linked to efficient energy
production now this is a layer of depth
that only a very few people could really
dig deep into because it's the it's the
foundational basis for what OT warberg
in the 1920s and 30s said that the
ability of a cancer cell to get energy
is compromised uh uh get energy using
oxygen is compromised and I keep showing
you know we cancer cells can live in
hypoxia without oxygen cancer cells can
live in cyanide uh cancer cells can live
with respiratory poisons they do fine uh
normal cells are killed instantly but
the cancer cell is not because it's not
using oxygen for energy so oxygen
consumption itself is a is kind of a um
giving you misinformation misdirecting
you but over for the last 10 15 years
the cancer many people doing energy
metabolism in cancer they went out and
bought the seahorse instrument it's a
it's a very sophisticated piece of
equipment that measures oxygen
consumption and extracellular
acidification using indirect formulas
and things like this and they have
become uh everybody feels that if you
don't you need to do seahorse research
and all this kind of stuff and it's
giving the field massive misinformation
so um uh and that's another thing that
nobody wants to really hear about that I
went out and bought all this expensive
equipment and now you're telling me that
I'm getting misinformation from it and
the answer is absolutely because we did
we did all the experiments to test all
this stuff and uh cancer cells don't
live in Ox they they they can grow
without oxygen quite fine and uh so that
tells us they're fermenting and that
comes back to what we did we
interrogated the cancer cells different
from different types of cancers and and
just said okay what can you guys grow on
and we took everything away from the
tumor cells put them in nothing in just
salt water salt solution called buffered
salt phosphate buffered saline solution
and you they're in there and they all
die okay great so let's let's do it
again every Cancer cell living in no in
in just uh salt water but phosphate
buffered salt dies all right great um
then we give them back uh ducco
essential modified medium which has a
few amino acids in there and put them in
there and they they uh they live a
little bit longer but then they croak
okay the cancer cells are all dead in
dmem which is kind of a cocktail of some
amino acids so they don't live in in
salt water and they don't live very long
in this dmem okay great now we know that
uh they they need something to live and
then we add back all the different
sugars and and amino acids and we add
everything back and then we try to find
out what they need to live all right so
is it oh we threw
cinee methionine we threw all the
different amino acid you know um you put
in glucose and you put in glutamine and
these things are skyrocketing now they
can also live on some other sugar like
sorbos but we don't have sorbos in our
diet we don't have sorbos so nobody's
going around chugging glasses a Soros so
uh but cancer cells can live on that
kind of a sugar as well but we don't we
don't have that um also uh what you find
out there are some other like asparagine
they can they can hang on a little bit
with asparagine but uh they they're
mostly dependent on glucose and
glutamine so we can't find any other
fuels that can replace glucose and
glutamine so people say oh the cancer
cells can live on Ketone bodies and
fatty acids oh yeah take away glucose
and glutamine put ketones and fatty
acids and they croak just as fast as
they were in the so solution now if you
take glucose and glutamine and add fatty
acids they can grow a little faster
because fatty acids enhance the use of
glucose and glutamine so we went through
all of these different conditions
Stripped Away everything and just ask
what these damn cells are capable of
doing under under stringent conditions
what do they need to survive and we
found out what they need to survive they
can't live without the glucose and
glutamine and these two fuels work
synergistically off each other got a
beautiful paper here it's unbelievable
we're going to be publishing this in a
not too distant future this is how this
is how the two fuels are driving the
Beast you know we we have them they're
they're straight shots through these two
Pathways feed off of each other allowing
those tumor cells to survive and um you
got to shut the two fuels down together
you take can't take away one because
they kind of hang on with the other you
hit that one and they hang on with the
other you got to hit those two fuels
together and force the body into a
restricted ketogenic situation because
they can't burn ketones you need a good
mitochondria to burn ketones cancer
cells cannot burn ketones so when you
hear all this crap about oh no canc some
cancer no they can't we tested them they
can't you show me the evidence that a
tumor cell can burn ketones in the
absence of glucose and glutamine my
hat's off to you because I haven't been
able to find it so when you start to
restrict everything down you know what
these cells have to have to survive and
if you know what they have to have to
survive they need energy and they need
metabolites to grow and those two fuels
give the cancer cell everything that it
needs and it can't use other things in
the environment so The Logical way to
manage cancer is to take away the two
absolutely required fuels and transition
the body over the fuels that the tumor
cells can't use and you will annihilate
for the majority majority of cancers are
all suffering from the same can you
believe this what I just told you can
you can you comprehend what I just
said it's unbelievable and then go down
go down to your local Cancer Clinic and
explain that to them and then you give
them the paper you say listen here's the
evidence that I just what I just said
and they look at it oh wow yeah is
really really I'm going I'll I'll read
this and I'll get back to you and never
get back to you so um not never but you
know most of them they look at it and
you might also be whoa what is this oh I
I don't know now look at this guy this
is a nice paper with with a a man who
had uh metastatic lung cancer he had
radiation and chemo uh he had chemo uh
it it was in his lung and it
metastasized to his brain and um he went
through the standard of care the cancer
continued to grow and my good friend Dr
aasis even Julio in Greece immediately
transitioned him over to a a a a calorie
restricted ketogenic diet uh which isn't
really too bad had lamb and olive oil
and things like it was actually kind of
a Mediterranean diet and this guy's
alive nine years later I mean he should
have been dead nine years ago right so
oh well this is only an N of one oh n of
one you know uh what about what about
Pablo C why don't people read about
these papers why don't you read about
this guy who should have been dead eight
years ago why is he still alive and he's
not cured but his cancer is there but
it's managed you know and they here's
the papers everybody can go on the web
on Google and Google these papers and
read them for themselves right this is
not hidden behind some wall of the
medical school this is out there it's on
it's on the it's on the internet so you
can people can read all these papers and
then they can read them carefully and
say well this is really interesting um
but I don't know if I can use
that well I think the clinics are the
ones that you have in everybody's major
city those are the clinics that should
be dra adapted this because you know and
there are but don't get me wrong there
are metabolic therapy clinics that are
starting I know there's one in
Switzerland I know there might be one in
Arizona um but they're not there yet
there's no place that you can go when
people say I he talks about this but
where do we go um go go to your local
hospital ask them about it then they say
well I never heard of
this so it's I feel bad for the poor
patient because the patient hears what
I'm saying there's here there is hope
here there is a way to manage this
disease without toxicity that could be
quite effective in keeping people alive
a lot longer but yet when they want a
professional guidance on this there's no
this where where do you go okay um yeah
I've been able to do it on one or two
three four five case reports and um you
know the our our our can9 paper just
came out so um this one here that that
everybody's been talking about you know
how is it possible that you could use uh
a resolution of of
mass can9 mass cell tumor using
ketogenic metabolic therapy alone no
chemicals no radiation nothing and this
dog is fine and you can look at the
pictures of the dog and you can see how
clear and that's another thing um in in
these major hospitals when you treat
cancer you like to say oh I looked at
all the the the the heat Maps the the
medical the gene readouts I looked at
the mutations and I looked at this and I
looked looked at that I tried to figure
out in our case we had nothing to study
it was gone resolution means no cancer
there's nothing left to study what what
can you do where's where's your data to
show all I can show is the face of a dog
that had a big tumor now he has no tumor
uh from a radical change in diet and
I've see the same thing happen in people
too um so a lot of it Jesse will fall on
the shoulders of the P of the patient
themselves I give them information they
can read it is it easy no it's not easy
um but it's there uh they have to spend
a little time you have to have some
level of scientific
literacy uh to understand this so it's
not like going down to your local
oncology center and having them do a
biopsy and telling you have this kind of
a Cancer and now we're going to
Institute a program to manage your
cancer with toxic radiation and
chemicals and immunotherapies and caram
know all this kind of stuff and uh or
telling you uh go home and start cutting
back back on your uh get your get your
blood sugars down your ketones up get
yourself into a state of in fact that's
what we we had with the Press pulse
therapy because I think people need to
know about that and this is the this is
the diagram for that and as you can see
on this paper you have the the red Guy
full of cancer he's got type two
diabetes he's got high blood pressure
he's got all kinds of stuff and then
slowly move him to the yellow where the
cancer is becomes less deadly uh less
complicating he starts to get a little
bit healthier and then we slowly degrade
as you can see the different kinds of
drugs and diets that you use and as you
said emotional therapy uh to reduce
anxiety all of this is part of the
package for healing so this is a
strategy for healing uh and as I said
before the body will heal itself if you
give the body the opportunity to do this
so it's a plan strategy to manage cancer
and it will work and it does work the
problem is it's not yet ready for prime
time in any of the major medical schools
and I don't know how long that's going
to take but maybe your audience the
people that listen to this they're the
ones that will put the pressure they are
the ones that have to make the change I
can give you the directions the
protocols and everything else but if the
hospitals aren't using them then what do
you do the people have to demand it the
people have to want it oh it's funny I I
I speak to so many Physicians
uh oncologists and whatever and um the
ones that know that I'm right are
usually the ones that have
retied they can't say anything when
they're actually working but as soon as
they retire they come to me and says you
are 100% right man I can support
everything you're saying but they can't
say it when they're working for the very
reasons that you just mentioned and uh
and how do you change the system um this
cancer system is broken it's a a broken
system uh treating patients on a a a
flawed theory of what the actual disease
is people are suffering and dying uh
we're using medieval kinds of approaches
to manage these these people H little
kids uh we're working on a on a on a on
a on a therapy now for childhood brain
cancer that's far less toxic and more
therapeutic again we have a beautiful
preclinical system um uh for this we can
publish it then you go and try to get
into the clinic for the patient the
person who has it little kid that's
suffering from a brain tumor and they
won't use it so we're going to have the
same problem uh up and down the path how
do how do we change that uh that's right
we have the science we should be in the
right direction but we're not doing it
so why are we not doing it and then you
have to kind of dig deeper and a lot of
it has to do um uh with something other
than the science you know obviously
there's something else going on here I
mean if the science tells us we should
go in this direction and we have the
hard preclinical evidence and case
report evidence to say that we should be
going in this direction and we're not
going in that direction then what then
why are why are we not going in that
direction so why are these poor folks
that uh listen to this get some level of
Hope and they go to their Cancer Clinic
and they don't get anything what I'm
saying and they get ridiculed and
sometimes told to leave and this is
unacceptable and I understand there are
Physicians that understand what I'm
saying and they wish they could do this
but the system does not allow them to do
it so what's the system who's in charge
of the system what who is this so-called
system okay there's nothing being
suppressed here there's no conspiracy
here this is clearly there there there's
I mean I'm talking you're listening
people are listening well why is this
not being done and then you have to say
there's something else going on here
this got to be some it's not it's just
ignored it's not being suppressed it's
just basically IGN why is it ignored
what is wrong with the science that we
have shown uh year in and year out with
the success stories that we have well
you didn't do a big big clinical trial
how can we not how can we do a clinical
trial when the very people that would be
participatory in the trial never heard
of this know nothing about the biology
and you're treating patients with folks
that really don't understand what the
situation is who's going to pay for the
clinical trial right I mean you got to
think about the cost of the physician's
salary the beds in the hospital the the
the the uh the tests that we do to Sure
ensure that something is working in the
right direction I me all this cost costs
money so who's going to pay for this
kind of a of a therapy uh are folks that
have breast cancer all going to and get
their money together and say let's do a
clinical trial and metabolic therapy for
breast cancer what they do is they run
um Susan Coleman pink ribbon campaigns
and everybody's out there you know
jogging and and they raise like millions
of dollars and then they give it to uh
Dana Farber the these are the same guys
that are contributing to the problem in
the first place so uh so what are you
going to do uh I don't know maybe it's
that's beyond my pay grade so um but but
all I can do is present the hard
evidence to say that we should be doing
this and if you don't do it then there
must be some other reason for why you
you don't want to do this and the
clinics are in the major hospitals so
don't say I want to go to a clinic that
does metabolic therapy well go to go
down to uh the James uh MD Anderson go
down go to MD Anderson and say listen
why are you guys not doing metabolic
therapy get the answer to well we can't
do metabol hasn't done a clinical they
give you all kinds of superficial things
and if they say well the science really
hasn't been established well oh yeah
where you show me the paper you know
poor poor patient doesn't can't deal
with this kind of stuff and shouldn't
have to deal with this kind of stuff I
deal with that kind of stuff you know
but I'm I can't I'm not a physician I
can't treat anybody I can't tell you
what to do or what not to do all I can
do is publish my research show that it
works uh oh it doesn't work on a mouse
you know oh he well those Mouse studies
you know they they're they're not
relevant these Mouse studies oh yeah
well what about the dog the dog
responded even better than the mouse so
your dogs are irrelevant now too It Go
works together on a couple of
uh CL case reports of guys with terminal
cancer I mean it works on them it works
on it it works on people and dogs better
than it worked on any of our Mouse
models I can tell you that and all of
our all of our data we're coming from a
poor model of cancer and we're getting
results it works so much better in
humans and dogs I I I have a kit all it
is is just um you know ba basically
telling people that if you can get your
blood sugar down your ketones up uh you
have a chance to reduce the rate of
growth of these tumors and I I in fact
our our press pulse concept that was I
showed you evidence for
uh the gluc the little meter the keto
Mojo glucose Ketone index um and and
that's another thing too A lot of people
come to me and and they say um oh I take
a prick my my take a little drop of
blood and I put it on the the stick and
I put it in the meter it gives me my
glucose and then I take another drop of
blood and I put on the stick and it
gives me my ketones and I push a button
and it gives me the ratio of blood sugar
to blood ketones and we've published
what we think is the the Zone the
therapeutic Zone that slows the cancer
down and gives you an opportunity to
plan out options and things and a lot of
patients or patients a lot of people
will tell me that you know I can't get
my I I've done everything and I can't
get uh my my my my my my reading I can't
get into the Zone you're telling me and
then you find out that they're also
being treated with steroids and treat
radiation and other things and all that
stuff prevents the body from getting
down into these critical zones of
therapeutic healing and um so that's one
interference and they struggle and they
struggle and they do this and they do
that most of the the the people that I
see who can get into these zones uh
don't have any chemo radiation like all
the guys that these folks that I'm
talking about um they they were not
hampered by toxic treatments in the body
at the same time and then people say oh
you know I've been eating these
vegetables and I can't get my well stop
try something else' um uh there's foods
that Spike blood sugar and then there's
foods that like do the same thing I know
it's very hard believe me I I'm not
going out there advocating people just
drink water for you know 14 days or 15
days this is hard but but people can do
it um and and as I said I can't go out
and tell people and I F I can't tell
them anything but I but I can't say oh
the only way you're going to manage your
cancer is you know don't eat for 30 days
and just drink water uh but there are
people that do that and they do get
success but that's not
what most people want to hear um you
have to have a therapy Guided by
professionals that will allow you to
help you get into those zones uh Miriam
calamian she has a service she's a a
diet diet nutrition certified person who
knows and helps many many she wrote the
many many patients get into these zones
she wrote the book keto for cancer
people must um look at what they're
eating how much they eat the
combinations and and then you'll slowly
start to see getting into these zones
and then once you're in the zone then
there are uh non-toxic drugs uh like
these parasite medications that really
do a job on these cancer cells um but
they don't work unless you're in this
metabolic zone so again it's a it's a
planned procedure you just can't go out
and take certain kinds of drugs and
expect to get you just the diet alone
will be very helpful it's the diet with
the with the specific kinds of drugs
that Target glucose and glutamine
simultaneously that the key you got to
be able to get your body into a state
that accepts the drugs in the right
combo and that's called um working on
that um dosage timing and scheduling and
that's The Cutting Edge right now so
that's where our money come when we get
uh most of our research is supported by
philanthropy and private
foundations um because they'll they're
more uh allowing us to do pretty much
what what we need to do to move the the
needle forward move the needle on this
whole thing and we have the best people
that work with me for for years on these
preclinical systems and interrogating
these cells so once once we know and we
put it the package together uh we can
train people to do this and help them um
but you know there's a lot of variables
here Jesse um and uh you know we're
we're trying to do the best we can to
help help these people and um and know
that we're right and know that this is
going to help and it does from what I
see it's going to help a lot of people
but I feel frustrated in not being able
to tell them go to this place if you
want to go to the clinic in Istanbul uh
where they have had some success success
for everybody no who has success for
everybody no place has success for
everybody but do we have a better
outcome than some other places
absolutely will the future allow people
to build clinics that will treat people
uh with metabolic therapy uh maybe uh I
think it will be very hopeful I have
I've I've worked with a lot of
knowledgeable people that would be
wonderful in treating cancer patients we
have to have we need MDS we need MDS
that are licensed to treat people but
they need to be able to have the
flexibility to do uh to do this and
right now as you've clearly mentioned
they don't have the level of flexibility
to integrate these protocols into uh a
treatment for their patients